listen so after mastering the art of
animating water perfecting the
reflections of natural light and
becoming ultra realistic
pixar's decided to reel it back and do
what sony's been doing for a bit
and i really like it the hand-drawn
style is something that they've
alienated themselves from after making
most of their movies look the same but
he reminded me a lot of the stop-motion
movies we've been getting especially
with our grommet mouse it's clearly
influenced by some of the greats and i
love the director's quote about making
something feel timeless by
making it old it's the story of a sea
creature who realizes there's more above
the surface during a period in time when
his own body's starting to change
kind of like a reverse 13th year
seriously gross
and while it is a simple story i think
it was an extremely cute one it's not
something that's gonna blow your
mind or be as intricate like some other
pixar flicks are but it's almost like
the team just got together and said oh
we could just have fun
it's a shame that disney has pinned down
pixar to being just streaming releases
at no extra cost while they continue to
push their movies as special premieres
with theatrical showings but you know
that's a whole other video for another
time as for luca i do think it's worth
the junior price
just because of the score and the
animation which would be dope on the big
screen if you're able to catch it there
but it is also worth to rent it even if
that now means just a month of plus
because
it does get better with re-watches as it
asks you the question are you more like
the timid but curious luca
or the outgoing and fearless alberto and
the answer should be
julia let me explain so the story
follows luca a fish herder for his
family who feels like he's the one who's
being corralled he looks just like a sea
monkey but even they have more freedom
than him
his parents want to keep him in a quiet
place away from all the danger in the
world
telling him to fear those above the same
way that they fear those below
but then he meets alberto scorfano my
name is luca
he comes out for the first time from the
water and looks like all of us walking
after quarantine but
alberto teaches him how in shazam he
transforms they spend their summer of 85
55 adding to al's collection of
collectibles and trying to build their
own vespa
but when his parents want to send him
off with his uncle under the sea fathoms
below
alberto convinces him to run away above
sea and be a part of his world
they pull up pirates as they sneak into
town through this bow and
meet some poor unfortunate souls but
then also some of the best
as far as this dude i swear i've worked
fast food with a dude just like ercole
man keeps insisting he's 16 when he's
probably like 45 as he bullies everyone
in this small town
bending the rules each year to win the
annual race known as the portrosa cup
which the boys decide they want to
compete in so that they can get their
own vespa who pixar actually collabed
with for the company's 75th anniversary
however julia and of course arcola don't
think they have
it fine go start the club for losers
julia is also technically an out of
towner since she lives with her mom and
only visits her dad when she's out of
school
and i honestly think she makes the movie
in my opinion are her lines kind of
cheesy
yeah literally but i love what a
character represents they all realize
that they're better as a team as they
decide to split the race into the writer
the swimmer and the pasta eater
and i think that they have great
chemistry especially when you consider
that they never actually recorded
together or even got the chance to meet
each other i had to do it all in my club
my mother's closet
but it was a cool it was a cool
experience i'd never seen so much of my
mom's closet before
however there's times when when um
enrique would ask me to improvise
and um that's kind of a dangerous game
asking me to improvise because i might
slip out with something
a little bit too adult hey eddie these
are birth control pills yeah i'm saving
if you're a sister eventually lucas
parents come to town and even though
they've supposedly reportedly allegedly
never been to the surface
they're able to walk with ease and since
they're on a mission they decided to
baptize every child in this town again
in order to find luca
oh sorry i'm not used to legs now again
it's not a perfect movie i'm not saying
that it's going to be a masterpiece for
everybody
especially when it comes to its own
rules and how the town hates sea
monsters because there are several times
when lucas should have turned when he
was in front of everybody
at one point they have alberto running
with an umbrella in front of him in the
rain
and considering how long they've been
hunting these creatures as soon as they
got close to someone's daughter you know
they would have been poached quicker
than jimmy john's
it's also not like coco where it's
aiming to represent an entire culture
from
its voice cast to its ritual but more so
the childhood memories of that culture
from the director's point of view
in fact it's based completely on his own
childhood the inspiration for
luca are multiple but one of the core
one
is the summers i spent when my best
friend alberto
when we were kids where i was around 12
when i met him
and i was a timid and shy kid and he was
a bit of a troublemaker
an extrovert he was running around
always one new thing every day
so the experience of really having a lot
of fun and
being kind of out of my comfort zone
with someone who's very different from
me
something i really wanted to talk about
these friendships that
that kind of right age when we're
starting to kind of leave
the the the comfort of the family
um that challenge you that kind of start
making you find
your identity that's why there's a bunch
of italian easter eggs specifically to
the iconic director fellini even using
the same train design for the final
goodbye scene as an homage
there are several movie post references
and classics playing on the tv
in this animated world that is based off
of his hometown we as kids we roamed
around and went fishing there on
which means point but of course they
keep the pixar staples when luca gets
his ticket to go to school it's the
iconic a113 classroom where pixar
legends learn that gets referenced
obviously they showcase the incredible
italian pasta dishes throughout
but deliver the biggest culinary homage
with the pizza planet truck there's the
luxo ball when they're racing but
personally
i'm a little upset that they cut the
ratzenberger easter eggs because those
are always my personal favorites to look
out for
keeping in the same universe though you
know in seoul they had that portoroso
poster that was advertising travel there
which
is probably also like one train ride
away from the puerto corsa place and
it's raceway that we saw in cars too
the grape drink from up has gone
international but not as much as donald
thuck who i didn't know was this massive
overseas even flexing his own comic
series
director enrico casarosa previously did
the short luna and he has a couple of
references here as well
with the moon with the little boy
appearing in the credits and even the
dads looking familiar
and are probably also cousins with a
sardine selling dad from cloudy
even with the stars there's a cute
little looney tunes moment where luca
replaces them with fish
because what are all those tiny lights
anchovies
they go there to sleep and keeping on
that idea of friendships influencing you
the boys even start to use julius
phrases
it's a literal fish out of water story
where luca discovers a whole new world
as he's animated with having the biggest
eyes to take it all in but the other
thing he takes
is his family for granted because
they're there for him a little too much
whereas alberto has no one and it's that
ignorance that causes him to go from a
shepherd protecting fish to the one who
ends up selling him out
including a moment where he turns on his
own best friend
luka this berto on the other hand looks
forward to things when he's used to
getting left behind
that's why he feels the way when he sees
the same thing happening to luca
yet is willing to put his best friend's
interest first and with massimo
he finally has someone who he can learn
from someone who is also born different
than those around him
and someone who when he goes missing is
actually willing to go look for him
i don't think he wants anyone looking
for him maybe not
but just in case julie is also stuck
between two worlds you know not being
able to fit in with her peers at school
but also not fully welcomed in the
summertime where her dad lives yet
she's the most persistent person who's
never willing to take no for an answer
i didn't quit they made me stop not only
does she have an interest in space but
she's also the one who truly educates
luke and sets him on a path she also
focuses on the small details and can
pick up even under distress
when her friends are in trouble and
through it all remains positive
the universe is literally yours wow
no that's also why it's cute that in the
credits they seem to be watching the
moon landing together so
i really don't know when it takes place
but there is several ways that you can
take this
movie from a protective parent's point
of view who's overly worried for their
child to experience the world
the world is a very dangerous place luca
and if i have to send you to the bottom
of the ocean to keep you
safe so be it to the experienced elderly
who have hope that they'll find a way
some people they'll never accept him
but some will stories like these have
always been ripe for metaphors
especially when you're dealing with
mermaids
it's a story about growing a friendship
that then starts to grow apart
it's a story for the runaways who feel
they're not welcomed in a place out to
get them
until things change for those left
behind and leave markings to
not feel alone a story that deals with
outing turning
learning to be yourself and hell was
released in the month of june this is
how i came into the world
so as someone who runs a channel called
let me explain i've always been aware of
the different interpretations people can
bring into a movie
depending on their own backgrounds and
the me in lme represents mine
even when it's different from the
director because art isn't just
subjective when you want it to be
from the creatives to the viewer a great
movie speaks to the most vulnerable
parts of your psyche
and this is one of those movies where
you can put any theory to it
and it doesn't really contradict the
story and that's thanks to its
simplicity
it's meant for you to apply your own
experiences to it and if anyone tries to
shut you or
tells you differently then hit him with
a silencio bruno
in the end the town people do embrace
them fast when this movie ended up on
streaming
as the friends go their separate ways
ready to encounter new things
as a credit shout out all of the friends
who pulled us out of the water and
helped us find our way
those who push you to leave your comfort
zone and take a risk to all those that
help you look ahead
thanks to you otherwise i never would
have seen any of this
thank you all for checking out this
video and i'm curious to know your
thoughts down below in the comment
section what are your theories what does
the movie mean to you how do you
interpret it and what's your favorite
character i'm curious to know what you
think about uh pixar at this point you
know
i've never thought that their animation
is bad but i do love that it seems
like they're pivoting over to the style
of letting the animators the directors
do their own thing and kind of make it
different like
not everything needs to be the same so
i'm curious to see where they're gonna
take it with that
uh one of the best parts of the movie
and something that i've had on repeat is
the score
it is just beautiful the whistling the
italian influences
just the contrast of the music when
they're underwater to just how free it
feels when they're above
and even noting the fact that the ending
song was inspired by weezers only in
dreams
interesting just fascinating stuff but
that's one that i've had on repeat i
think
again while it's an issue to see that
pixar is kind of being drowned out in
the background and only being streaming
releases
i i don't like that from disney it is
dope that we have it there and the
comfort of our own home to
watch and re-watch as many times if you
have a disney plus account i guess but
i'm curious to know your thoughts on
this like i said it's been interesting
to see how people have taken it or
you know kind of rejected what the
director has to say even though he's the
one who made the movie but
you know it can be both it can be
multiple interpretations and i think
that's one of the best parts of this
movie and why i think
uh it's gonna stick around to be a lot
of people's favorites for a while
um not in my top half but definitely one
that i enjoy it's probably like right in
the middle of my pixar list but i'm
curious to see where it
lands for you let me know your thoughts
on this one or any other ones and until
next time don't forget to comment like
and subscribe
and i'll send you a vespa